The trans-Planckian problem is the issue that Hawking's original calculation includes quantum
particles where the wavelength becomes shorter than the Planck length near the black hole's horizon.
This is due to the peculiar behavior there, where time stops as measured from far away. A particle
emitted from a black hole with a finite frequency, if traced back to the horizon, must have had an
infinite frequency, and therefore a trans-Planckian wavelength.
The Unruh effect and the Hawking effect both talk about field modes in the superficially stationary
spacetime that change frequency relative to other coordinates that are regular across the horizon. This
is necessarily so, since to stay outside a horizon requires acceleration that constantly Doppler shifts
the modes.
An outgoing photon of Hawking radiation, if the mode is traced back in time, has a frequency that
diverges from that which it has at great distance, as it gets closer to the horizon, which requires the
wavelength of the photon to "scrunch up" infinitely at the horizon of the black hole. In a maximally
extended external Schwarzschild solution, that photon's frequency stays regular only if the mode is
extended back into the past region where no observer can go, so Hawking used a different black hole
solution without a past region, one that forms at a finite time in the past. In that case, the source of all
the outgoing photons can be identified: a microscopic point right at the moment that the black hole
first formed.
The quantum fluctuations at that tiny point, in Hawking's original calculation, contain all the outgoing
radiation. The modes that eventually contain the outgoing radiation at long times are redshifted by
such a huge amount by their long sojourn next to the event horizon that they start off as modes with a
wavelength much shorter than the Planck length. Since the laws of physics at such short distances are
unknown, some find Hawking's original calculation unconvincing.[26][27][28][29]
The trans-Planckian problem is nowadays mostly considered a mathematical artifact of horizon
calculations. The same effect occurs for regular matter falling onto a white hole solution. Matter that
falls on the white hole accumulates on it, but has no future region into which it can go. Tracing the
future of this matter, it is compressed onto the final singular endpoint of the white hole evolution, into
a trans-Planckian region. The reason for these types of divergences is that modes that end at the
horizon from the point of view of outside coordinates are singular in frequency there. The only way to
determine what happens classically is to extend in some other coordinates that cross the horizon.
There exist alternative physical pictures that give the Hawking radiation in which the trans-Planckian
problem is addressed. The key point is that similar trans-Planckian problems occur when the modes
occupied with Unruh radiation are traced back in time.[14] In the Unruh effect, the magnitude of the
temperature can be calculated from ordinary Minkowski field theory, and is not controversial.
Problems and extensions
Trans-Planckian problem
4/10/26, 3:47 PM
Hawking radiation - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawking_radiation
7/17
