Einstein and Niels Bohr, 1925
Einstein never fully accepted quantum mechanics. While he recognized
that it made correct predictions, he believed a more fundamental
description of nature must be possible. Over the years he presented
multiple arguments to this effect, but the one he preferred most dated
to a debate with Bohr in 1930. Einstein suggested a thought
experiment in which two objects are allowed to interact and then
moved apart a great distance from each other. The quantum-
mechanical description of the two objects is a mathematical entity
known as a wavefunction. If the wavefunction that describes the two
objects before their interaction is given, then the Schrödinger equation provides the wavefunction that
describes them after their interaction. But because of what would later be called quantum
entanglement, measuring one object would lead to an instantaneous change of the wavefunction
describing the other object, no matter how far away it is. Moreover, the choice of which measurement
to perform upon the first object would affect what wavefunction could result for the second object.
Einstein reasoned that no influence could propagate from the first object to the second
instantaneously fast. Indeed, he argued, physics depends on being able to tell one thing apart from
another, and such instantaneous influences would call that into question. Because the true "physical
condition" of the second object could not be immediately altered by an action done to the first,
Einstein concluded, the wavefunction could not be that true physical condition, only an incomplete
description of it.[298][299]
A more famous version of this argument came in 1935, when Einstein published a paper with Boris
Podolsky and Nathan Rosen that laid out what would become known as the EPR paradox.[300] In this
thought experiment, two particles interact in such a way that the wavefunction describing them is
entangled. Then, no matter how far the two particles were separated, a precise position measurement
on one particle would imply the ability to predict, perfectly, the result of measuring the position of the
other particle. Likewise, a precise momentum measurement of one particle would result in an equally
precise prediction for of the momentum of the other particle, without needing to disturb the other
particle in any way. They argued that no action taken on the first particle could instantaneously affect
the other, since this would involve information being transmitted faster than light, which is forbidden
by the theory of relativity. They invoked a principle, later known as the "EPR criterion of reality",
positing that: "If, without in any way disturbing a system, we can predict with certainty (i.e., with
probability equal to unity) the value of a physical quantity, then there exists an element of reality
corresponding to that quantity." From this, they inferred that the second particle must have a definite
value of both position and of momentum prior to either quantity being measured. But quantum
mechanics considers these two observables incompatible and thus does not associate simultaneous
values for both to any system. Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen therefore concluded that quantum
theory does not provide a complete description of reality.[301]
In 1964, John Stewart Bell carried the analysis of quantum entanglement much further. He deduced
that if measurements are performed independently on the two separated particles of an entangled
pair, then the assumption that the outcomes depend upon hidden variables within each half implies a
mathematical constraint on how the outcomes on the two measurements are correlated. This
constraint would later be called a Bell inequality. Bell then showed that quantum physics predicts
correlations that violate this inequality. Consequently, the only way that hidden variables could
Einstein–Podolsky–Rosen paradox
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein
28/61
