phenomenon. Other predictions include the existence of gravitational waves, which have been
observed directly by the physics collaboration LIGO and other observatories. In addition, general
relativity has provided the basis for cosmological models of an expanding universe.
Widely acknowledged as a theory of extraordinary mathematical beauty, general relativity has often
been described as the most beautiful of all existing physical theories.[2]
Henri Poincaré's 1905 theory of the dynamics of the electron was a relativistic theory which he applied
to all forces, including gravity. While others thought that gravity was instantaneous or of
electromagnetic origin, he suggested that relativity was "something due to our methods of
measurement". In his theory, he showed that gravitational waves propagate at the speed of light.[3]
Soon afterwards, Einstein started thinking about how to incorporate gravity into his relativistic
framework. In 1907, beginning with a simple thought experiment involving an observer in free fall
(FFO), he embarked on what would be an eight-year search for a relativistic theory of gravity. After
numerous detours and false starts, his work culminated in the presentation to the Prussian Academy
of Science in November 1915 of what are known as the Einstein field equations, which form the core of
Einstein's general theory of relativity.[4] These equations specify how the geometry of space and time
is influenced by whatever matter and radiation are present.[5] A version of non-Euclidean geometry,
called Riemannian geometry, enabled Einstein to develop general relativity by providing the key
mathematical framework on which he fit his physical ideas of gravity.[6] This idea was pointed out by
mathematician Marcel Grossmann and published by Grossmann and Einstein in 1913.[7]
The Einstein field equations are nonlinear and are considered difficult to solve. Einstein used
approximation methods in working out initial predictions of the theory. But in 1916, the astrophysicist
Karl Schwarzschild found the first non-trivial exact solution to the Einstein field equations, the
Schwarzschild metric. This solution laid the groundwork for the description of the final stages of
gravitational collapse, and the objects known today as black holes. In the same year, the first steps
towards generalizing Schwarzschild's solution to electrically charged objects were taken, eventually
resulting in the Reissner–Nordström solution, which is associated with electrically charged black
holes.[8] In 1917, Einstein applied his theory to the universe as a whole, initiating the field of
relativistic cosmology. In line with contemporary thinking, he assumed a static universe, adding a new
parameter to his original field equations—the cosmological constant—to match that observational
presumption.[9] By 1929, however, the work of Hubble and others had shown that the universe is
expanding. This is readily described by the expanding cosmological solutions found by Friedmann in
1922, which do not require a cosmological constant. Lemaître used these solutions to formulate the
earliest version of the Big Bang models, in which the universe has evolved from an extremely hot and
dense earlier state.[10] Einstein later declared the cosmological constant the biggest blunder of his
life.[11]
During that period, general relativity remained something of a curiosity among physical theories. It
was clearly superior to Newtonian gravity, being consistent with special relativity and accounting for
several effects unexplained by the Newtonian theory. Einstein showed in 1915 how his theory
explained the anomalous perihelion advance of the planet Mercury without any arbitrary parameters
History
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
2/55
