Penrose–Carter diagram of an infinite
Minkowski universe
metric is asymptotically flat, making no a priori assumptions about the nature of the asymptotic
symmetry group—not even the assumption that such a group exists. Then after designing what they
considered to be the most sensible boundary conditions, they investigated the nature of the resulting
asymptotic symmetry transformations that leave invariant the form of the boundary conditions
appropriate for asymptotically flat gravitational fields. What they found was that the asymptotic
symmetry transformations actually do form a group and the structure of this group does not depend
on the particular gravitational field that happens to be present. This means that, as expected, one can
separate the kinematics of spacetime from the dynamics of the gravitational field at least at spatial
infinity. The puzzling surprise in 1962 was their discovery of a rich infinite-dimensional group (the so-
called BMS group) as the asymptotic symmetry group, instead of the finite-dimensional Poincaré
group, which is a subgroup of the BMS group. Not only are the Lorentz transformations asymptotic
symmetry transformations, there are also additional transformations that are not Lorentz
transformations but are asymptotic symmetry transformations. In fact, they found an additional
infinity of transformation generators known as supertranslations. This implies the conclusion that
General Relativity (GR) does not reduce to special relativity in the case of weak fields at long
distances. It turns out that the BMS symmetry, suitably modified, could be seen as a restatement of
the universal soft graviton theorem in quantum field theory (QFT), which relates universal infrared
(soft) QFT with GR asymptotic spacetime symmetries.[153]
In general relativity, no material body can catch up with or
overtake a light pulse. No influence from an event A can reach
any other location X before light sent out at A to X. In
consequence, an exploration of all light worldlines (null
geodesics) yields key information about the spacetime's causal
structure. This structure can be displayed using Penrose–
Carter diagrams in which infinitely large regions of space and
infinite time intervals are shrunk ("compactified") so as to fit
onto a finite map, while light still travels along diagonals as in
standard spacetime diagrams.[154]
Aware of the importance of causal structure, Roger Penrose
and others developed what is known as global geometry. In
global geometry, the object of study is not one particular
solution (or family of solutions) to Einstein's equations.
Rather, relations that hold true for all geodesics, such as the Raychaudhuri equation, and additional
non-specific assumptions about the nature of matter (usually in the form of energy conditions) are
used to derive general results.[155]
Using global geometry, some spacetimes can be shown to contain boundaries called horizons, which
demarcate one region from the rest of spacetime. The best-known examples are black holes: if mass is
compressed into a sufficiently compact region of space (as specified in the hoop conjecture, the
Causal structure and global geometry
Event horizons
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
17/55
