Some trajectories of a harmonic oscillator (i.e. a
ball attached to a spring) in classical mechanics
(A-B) and quantum mechanics (C-H). In quantum
mechanics, the position of the ball is represented
by a wave (called the wave function), with the real
part shown in blue and the imaginary part shown
in red. Some of the trajectories (such as C, D, E,
and F) are standing waves (or "stationary states").
Each standing-wave frequency is proportional to a
possible energy level of the oscillator. This
"energy quantization" does not occur in classical
physics, where the oscillator can have any
energy.
A finite potential well is the generalization of the infinite potential well problem to potential wells
having finite depth. The finite potential well problem is mathematically more complicated than the
infinite particle-in-a-box problem as the wave function is not pinned to zero at the walls of the well.
Instead, the wave function must satisfy more complicated mathematical boundary conditions as it is
nonzero in regions outside the well. Another related problem is that of the rectangular potential
barrier, which furnishes a model for the quantum tunneling effect that plays an important role in the
performance of modern technologies such as flash memory and scanning tunneling microscopy.
As in the classical case, the potential for the quantum
harmonic oscillator is given by[7]: 234 
This problem can either be treated by directly solving
the Schrödinger equation, which is not trivial, or by
using the more elegant "ladder method" first proposed
by Paul Dirac. The eigenstates are given by
where Hn are the Hermite polynomials
and the corresponding energy levels are
This is another example illustrating the discretization
of energy for bound states.
The Mach–Zehnder interferometer (MZI) illustrates
the concepts of superposition and interference with
linear algebra in dimension 2, rather than differential
Harmonic oscillator
Mach–Zehnder interferometer
4/10/26, 3:51 PM
Quantum mechanics - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_mechanics
10/28
