generalization known as a semi- or pseudo-Riemannian metric. Furthermore, each Riemannian
metric is naturally associated with one particular kind of connection, the Levi-Civita connection, and
this is, in fact, the connection that satisfies the equivalence principle and makes space locally
Minkowskian (that is, in suitable locally inertial coordinates, the metric is Minkowskian, and its first
partial derivatives and the connection coefficients vanish).[39]
Having formulated the relativistic, geometric version of the effects of gravity, the question of gravity's
source remains. In Newtonian gravity, the source is mass. In special relativity, mass turns out to be
part of a more general quantity called the stress–energy tensor, which includes both energy and
momentum densities as well as stress: pressure and shear.[40] Using the equivalence principle, this
tensor is readily generalized to curved spacetime. Drawing further upon the analogy with geometric
Newtonian gravity, it is natural to assume that the field equation for gravity relates this tensor and the
Ricci tensor, which describes a particular class of tidal effects: the change in volume for a small cloud
of test particles that are initially at rest, and then fall freely. In special relativity, conservation of
energy–momentum corresponds to the statement that the stress–energy tensor is divergence-free.
This formula, too, is readily generalized to curved spacetime by replacing partial derivatives with their
curved-manifold counterparts, covariant derivatives studied in differential geometry. With this
additional condition—the covariant divergence of the stress–energy tensor, and hence of whatever is
on the other side of the equation, is zero—the simplest nontrivial set of equations are what are called
Einstein's (field) equations:
Einstein's field equations
On the left-hand side is the Einstein tensor, 
, which is symmetric and a specific divergence-free
combination of the Ricci tensor 
 and the metric. In particular,
is the curvature scalar. The Ricci tensor itself is related to the more general Riemann curvature tensor
as
On the right-hand side,  is a constant and 
 is the stress–energy tensor. All tensors are written in
abstract index notation.[41] Matching the theory's prediction to observational results for planetary
orbits or, equivalently, assuring that the weak-gravity, low-speed limit is Newtonian mechanics, the
proportionality constant 
 is found to be 
, where 
 is the Newtonian constant of
gravitation and  the speed of light in vacuum.[42] When there is no matter present, so that the stress–
energy tensor vanishes, the results are the vacuum Einstein equations,
Einstein's equations
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
6/55
