Einstein at a session of the International
Committee on Intellectual Cooperation
(League of Nations) of which he was a
member from 1922 to 1932
In 1922, Einstein's travels were to the old world rather than the new. He devoted six months to a tour
of Asia that saw him speaking in Japan, Singapore and Sri Lanka (then known as Ceylon). After his
first public lecture in Tokyo, he met Emperor Yoshihito and his wife at the Imperial Palace, with
thousands of spectators thronging the streets in the hope of catching a glimpse of him. (In a letter to
his sons, he wrote that Japanese people seemed to him to be generally modest, intelligent and
considerate, and to have a true appreciation of art.[106] But his picture of them in his diary was less
flattering: "[the] intellectual needs of this nation seem to be weaker than their artistic ones – natural
disposition?" His journal also contains views of China and India which were uncomplimentary. Of
Chinese people, he wrote that "even the children are spiritless and look obtuse... It would be a pity if
these Chinese supplant all other races. For the likes of us the mere thought is unspeakably
dreary".[107][108]) He was greeted with even greater enthusiasm on the last leg of his tour, in which he
spent twelve days in Mandatory Palestine, newly entrusted to British rule by the League of Nations in
the aftermath of the First World War. Sir Herbert Samuel, the British High Commissioner, welcomed
him with a degree of ceremony normally only accorded to a visiting head of state, including a cannon
salute. One reception held in his honor was stormed by people determined to hear him speak: he told
them that he was happy that Jews were beginning to be recognized as a force in the world.[106]
On April 6, 1922, during a visit to Paris, Einstein engaged in a debate on relativity with the
philosopher Henri Bergson. This dispute has had widespread ramifications for the humanities and
was an academic cause célèbre at the time.[109]
Einstein's decision to tour the eastern hemisphere in 1922 meant that he was unable to go to
Stockholm in the December of that year to participate in the Nobel prize ceremony. His place at the
traditional Nobel banquet was taken by a German diplomat, who gave a speech praising him not only
as a physicist but also as a campaigner for peace.[110] A two-week visit to Spain that he undertook in
1923 saw him collecting another award, a membership of the Spanish Academy of Sciences signified
by a diploma handed to him by King Alfonso XIII. (His Spanish trip also gave him a chance to meet a
fellow Nobel laureate, the neuroanatomist Santiago Ramón y Cajal.)[111]
From 1922 until 1932, with the exception of a few months in
1923 and 1924, Einstein was a member of the Geneva-based
International Committee on Intellectual Cooperation of the
League of Nations, a group set up by the League to encourage
scientists, artists, scholars, teachers and other people engaged
in the life of the mind to work more closely with their
counterparts in other countries.[112][113] He was appointed as a
German delegate rather than as a representative of
Switzerland because of the machinations of two Catholic
activists, Oskar Halecki and Giuseppe Motta. By persuading
Secretary General Eric Drummond to deny Einstein the place
on the committee reserved for a Swiss thinker, they created an
opening for Gonzague de Reynold, who used his League of
Nations position as a platform from which to promote
Serving the League of Nations (1922–1932)
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein
10/61
