model of quantum gravity, however, as it occurs when the black hole's mass approaches 1 Planck
mass, its radius will also approach two Planck lengths.
The simplest models of black hole evaporation lead to the black hole information paradox. The
information content of a black hole appears to be lost when it dissipates, as under these models
the Hawking radiation is random (it has no relation to the original information). A number of
solutions to this problem have been proposed, including suggestions that Hawking radiation is
perturbed to contain the missing information, that the Hawking evaporation leaves some form of
remnant particle containing the missing information, and that information is allowed to be lost
under these conditions.
The relationship between mass and temperature for Hawking radiation then implies the mass would
need to be less than 0.8% of the mass of the Earth. This in turn means any black hole that could
dissipate cannot be one created by stellar collapse. Only primordial black holes might be created with
this little mass.[21]
Hawking estimated that any black hole formed in the early universe with a mass of less than
approximately 1012 kg would have evaporated completely by the present day.[22]
In 1976, Don Page refined this estimate by calculating the power produced, and the time to
evaporation, for a non-rotating, non-charged Schwarzschild black hole of mass M.[17] The calculations
are complicated by the fact that a black hole, being of finite size, is not a perfect black body; the
absorption cross section goes down in a complicated, spin-dependent manner as frequency decreases,
especially when the wavelength becomes comparable to the size of the event horizon. Page concluded
that primordial black holes could survive to the present day only if their initial mass were roughly
4 ×1011  kg or larger. Writing in 1976, Page using the understanding of neutrinos at the time
erroneously worked on the assumption that neutrinos have no mass and that only two neutrino flavors
exist, and therefore his results of black hole lifetimes do not match the modern results which take into
account 3 flavors of neutrinos with nonzero masses. A 2008 calculation using the particle content of
the Standard Model and the WMAP figure for the age of the universe yielded a mass bound of
(5.00 ± 0.04) ×1011 kg.[23]
Some pre-1998 calculations, using outdated assumptions about neutrinos, were as follows: If black
holes evaporate under Hawking radiation, a solar mass black hole will evaporate over 1064 years
which is vastly longer than the age of the universe.[24] A supermassive black hole with a mass of 1011
(100 billion) M☉ will evaporate in around 2 ×10100 years.[17]: 3263  Some monster black holes in the
universe are predicted to continue to grow up to perhaps 1014 M☉ during the collapse of superclusters
of galaxies. Even these would evaporate over a timescale of up to 2 × 10106 years.[24] Post-1998 science
modifies these results slightly; for example, the modern estimate of a solar-mass black hole lifetime is
1067 years.[25]
Evaporation of primordial black holes
4/10/26, 3:47 PM
Hawking radiation - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawking_radiation
6/17
