Picture of space falling into a
Schwarzschild black hole at the
Newtonian escape speed. Outside the
horizon (red), the infalling speed is less
than the speed of light; inside it is
greater. At the event horizon, the infalling
speed equals the speed of light.[6] Credit:
Andrew Hamilton, JILA
Diagram by Jacob Bekenstein of the
entropy on a black hole’s event horizon.
In 1971 Soviet scientists Yakov Zeldovich and Alexei
Starobinsky proposed that rotating black holes ought to create
and emit particles, reasoning by analogy with electromagnetic
spinning metal spheres. In 1972, Jacob Bekenstein developed
a theory and reported that the black holes should have an
entropy proportional to their surface area.[8] Initially Stephen
Hawking argued against Bekenstein's theory, viewing black
holes as a simple object with no entropy.[9]: 425  After meeting
Zeldovich in Moscow in 1973, Hawking put these two ideas
together using his mixture of quantum field theory and
general relativity.[9]: 435 
In his 1974 paper Hawking showed that in theory, black holes
radiate particles as if it were a blackbody. Particles escaping
effectively drain energy from the black hole. In Hawking's
prediction, black holes emit small amounts of thermal
radiation at a temperature of 
, where 
 is the
reduced Planck constant,  is the speed of light, 
 is the
gravitational constant, 
 is the mass of the black hole and 
is the Boltzmann constant.[10] By applying quantum field
theory to black holes, Hawking determined that a black hole
should continuously emit thermal blackbody radiation. This
effect has become known as Hawking radiation. This theory
was supported by previous work by Jacob Bekenstein, who
theorized that black holes should have a finite entropy
proportional to their surface area, and therefore should also
have a temperature.[11] Due to Bekenstein's contribution to
black hole entropy,[12] it is also known as Bekenstein–
Hawking radiation.[13] Since Hawking's publication, many
others have mathematically verified the result through different approaches.[11]
Hawking radiation derives from vacuum fluctuations. A quantum fluctuation in the electromagnetic
field can result in a photon outside of the black hole horizon paired with one on the inside. The
horizon allows one to escape in each direction.[9]: 439 
Hawking radiation is dependent on the Unruh effect and the equivalence principle applied to black-
hole horizons. Close to the event horizon of a black hole, a local observer must accelerate to keep from
falling in. An accelerating observer sees a thermal bath of particles that pop out of the local
acceleration horizon, turn around, and free-fall back in. The condition of local thermal equilibrium
Discovery
Emission process
4/10/26, 3:47 PM
Hawking radiation - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawking_radiation
2/17
