measurements of the cosmic background radiation also show that the evolution of the universe is
significantly influenced by a cosmological constant resulting in an acceleration of cosmic expansion
or, equivalently, by a form of energy with an unusual equation of state, known as dark energy, the
nature of which remains unclear.[143]
An inflationary phase,[144] an additional phase of strongly accelerated expansion at cosmic times of
around 10−33 seconds, was hypothesized in 1980 to account for several puzzling observations that
were unexplained by classical cosmological models, such as the nearly perfect homogeneity of the
cosmic background radiation.[145] Recent measurements of the cosmic background radiation have
resulted in the first evidence for this scenario.[146] However, there are a bewildering variety of possible
inflationary scenarios, which cannot be restricted by existing observations.[147] An even larger
question is the physics of the earliest universe, prior to the inflationary phase and close to where the
classical models predict the big bang singularity. An authoritative answer would require a complete
theory of quantum gravity, which has not yet been developed[148] (cf. the section on quantum gravity,
below).
Kurt Gödel showed[149] that solutions to Einstein's equations exist that contain closed timelike curves
(CTCs), which allow for loops in time. The solutions require extreme physical conditions unlikely ever
to occur in practice, and it remains an open question whether further laws of physics will eliminate
them completely. Since then, other—similarly impractical—GR solutions containing CTCs have been
found, such as the Tipler cylinder and traversable wormholes. Stephen Hawking introduced
chronology protection conjecture, which is an assumption beyond those of standard general relativity
to prevent time travel.
Some exact solutions in general relativity such as Alcubierre drive offer examples of warp drive but
these solutions require exotic matter distribution, and generally suffer from semiclassical instability.
[150]
The spacetime symmetry group for special relativity is the Poincaré group, which is a ten-dimensional
group of three Lorentz boosts, three rotations, and four spacetime translations. It is logical to ask what
symmetries, if any, might apply in General Relativity. A tractable case might be to consider the
symmetries of spacetime as seen by observers located far away from all sources of the gravitational
field. The naive expectation for asymptotically flat spacetime symmetries might be simply to extend
and reproduce the symmetries of flat spacetime of special relativity, viz., the Poincaré group.
In 1962 Hermann Bondi, M. G. van der Burg, A. W. Metzner[151] and Rainer K. Sachs[152] addressed
this asymptotic symmetry problem in order to investigate the flow of energy at infinity due to
propagating gravitational waves. Their first step was to decide on some physically sensible boundary
conditions to place on the gravitational field at light-like infinity to characterize what it means to say a
Exotic solutions: time travel, warp drives
Advanced concepts
Asymptotic symmetries
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
16/55
