on unsolved scientific questions with a monetary reward for solutions. The Academy acquired its own
research facilities in the 18th century, including an observatory in 1709; an anatomical theater in 1717;
a Collegium medico-chirurgicum in 1723; a botanical garden in 1718; and a laboratory in 1753.
However, those were later taken over by the University of Berlin.
As a French-language institution its publications were in French such as the Histoire de l'Académie
royale des sciences et belles lettres de Berlin which was published between 1745 and 1796.
A linguistics historian from Princeton University, Hans Aarsleff, notes that before Frederick ascended
the throne in 1740, the academy was overshadowed by similar bodies in London and Paris. Frederick
made French the official language and speculative philosophy the most important topic of study. The
membership was strong in mathematics and philosophy, and included notable philosophers such as
Immanuel Kant, Jean-Baptiste le Rond d'Alembert, Pierre-Louis de Maupertuis, and Etienne de
Condillac. However, the academy was in a crisis for two decades at mid-century, due to scandals and
internal rivalries such as the debates between Newtonianism and Leibnizian views, and the
personality conflicts between the philosopher Voltaire and the mathematician Maupertuis. At a higher
level, Maupertuis, the director from 1746 to 1759 and a monarchist, argued that the action of
individuals was shaped by the character of the institution that contained them, and they worked for
the glory of the state. By contrast, d'Alembert took a republican rather than monarchical approach and
emphasized the international Republic of Letters as the vehicle for scientific advance.[5] By 1789,
however, the academy had gained an international repute while making major contributions to
German culture and thought. Frederick invited Joseph-Louis Lagrange to succeed Leonhard Euler as
director; both were world-class mathematicians. Other intellectuals attracted to the philosopher's
kingdom were Francesco Algarotti, Jean-Baptiste de Boyer, and Julien Offray de La Mettrie.
Immanuel Kant published religious writings in Berlin which would have been censored elsewhere in
Europe.[1][2][6]
Since about 1812 the academy was named Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences.[7] Beginning in 1815,
research businesses led by Academy committees (such as the Greek-Roman Archeology Committee or
the Oriental Committee) were founded at the Academy. They employed mostly scientists to work
alongside the corresponding committee's members. University departments emanated from some of
these businesses after 1945.
On 25 November 1915 Albert Einstein presented his field equations of general relativity to the
Academy.
Under the rule of Nazi Germany from 1933 to 1945, the Academy was subject to the Gleichschaltung, a
"Nazification" process that was established to take totalitarian control over various aspects of society.
However, compared with other institutions, such as the universities where Jewish employees and
members were expelled starting in 1933, Jewish Academy members were not expelled until 1938,
19th century
20th century
4/10/26, 3:51 PM
Prussian Academy of Sciences - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prussian_Academy_of_Sciences
2/5
