Penrose–Hawking singularity theorems
The Penrose–Hawking singularity theorems (after Roger Penrose and Stephen Hawking) are a
set of results in general relativity that attempt to answer the question of when gravitation produces
singularities. The Penrose singularity theorem is a theorem in semi-Riemannian geometry and its
general relativistic interpretation predicts a gravitational singularity in black hole formation. The
Hawking singularity theorem is based on the Penrose theorem and it is interpreted as a
gravitational singularity in the Big Bang situation. Penrose shared half of the Nobel Prize in Physics in
2020 "for the discovery that black hole formation is a robust prediction of the general theory of
relativity".[1]
A singularity in solutions of the Einstein field equations is one of three things:
Spacelike singularities: The singularity lies in the future or past of all events within a certain region.
The Big Bang singularity and the typical singularity inside a non-rotating, uncharged
Schwarzschild black hole are spacelike.
Timelike singularities: These are singularities that can be avoided by an observer because they
are not necessarily in the future of all events. An observer might be able to move around a timelike
singularity. These are less common in known solutions of the Einstein field equations.
Null singularities: These singularities occur on light-like or null surfaces. An example might be
found in certain types of black hole interiors, such as the Cauchy horizon of a charged (Reissner–
Nordström) or rotating (Kerr) black hole.
A singularity can be either strong or weak:
Weak singularities: A weak singularity is one where the tidal forces (which are responsible for the
spaghettification in black holes) are not necessarily infinite. An observer falling into a weak
singularity might not be torn apart before reaching the singularity, although the laws of physics
would still break down there. The Cauchy horizon inside a charged or rotating black hole might be
an example of a weak singularity.
Strong singularities: A strong singularity is one where tidal forces become infinite. In a strong
singularity, any object would be destroyed by infinite tidal forces as it approaches the singularity.
The singularity at the center of a Schwarzschild black hole is an example of a strong singularity.
Space-like singularities are a feature of non-rotating uncharged black holes as described by the
Schwarzschild metric, while time-like singularities are those that occur in charged or rotating black
hole exact solutions. Both of them have the property of geodesic incompleteness, in which either some
light-path or some particle-path cannot be extended beyond a certain proper time or affine parameter
(affine parameter being the null analog of proper time).
The Penrose theorem guarantees that some sort of geodesic incompleteness occurs inside any black
hole whenever matter satisfies reasonable energy conditions. The energy condition required for the
black-hole singularity theorem is weak: it says that light rays are always focused together by gravity,
Singularity
4/10/26, 3:48 PM
Penrose–Hawking singularity theorems - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penrose–Hawking_singularity_theorems
1/7
