The Schrödinger's cat thought
experiment can be used to visualize the
many-worlds interpretation of quantum
mechanics, where a branching of the
universe occurs through a superposition
of two quantum mechanical states.
Max Planck is considered the
father of the quantum theory.
Quantum mechanics was developed in the early decades of the
20th century, driven by the need to explain phenomena that,
in some cases, had been observed in earlier times. Scientific
inquiry into the wave nature of light began in the 17th and
18th centuries, when scientists such as Robert Hooke,
Christiaan Huygens and Leonhard Euler proposed a wave
theory of light based on experimental observations.[77] In
1803 English polymath Thomas Young described the famous
double-slit experiment.[78] This experiment played a major
role in the general acceptance of the wave theory of light.
During the early 19th century, chemical research by John
Dalton and Amedeo Avogadro lent weight to the atomic theory
of matter, an idea that James Clerk Maxwell, Ludwig Boltzmann and others built upon to establish the
kinetic theory of gases. The successes of kinetic theory gave further credence to the idea that matter is
composed of atoms, yet the theory also had shortcomings that would only be resolved by the
development of quantum mechanics.[79] While the early conception of atoms from Greek philosophy
had been that they were indivisible units – the word "atom" deriving from the Greek for 'uncuttable' –
the 19th century saw the formulation of hypotheses about subatomic structure. One important
discovery in that regard was Michael Faraday's 1838 observation of a glow caused by an electrical
discharge inside a glass tube containing gas at low pressure. Julius Plücker, Johann Wilhelm Hittorf
and Eugen Goldstein carried on and improved upon Faraday's work, leading to the identification of
cathode rays, which J. J. Thomson found to consist of subatomic particles that would be called
electrons.[80][81]
The black-body radiation problem was discovered by Gustav Kirchhoff
in 1859. In 1900, Max Planck proposed the hypothesis that energy is
radiated and absorbed in discrete "quanta" (or energy packets),
yielding a calculation that precisely matched the observed patterns of
black-body radiation.[82] The word quantum derives from the Latin,
meaning "how great" or "how much".[83] According to Planck,
quantities of energy could be thought of as divided into "elements"
whose size (E) would be proportional to their frequency (ν):
, where h is the Planck constant. Planck cautiously insisted that this
was only an aspect of the processes of absorption and emission of
radiation and was not the physical reality of the radiation.[84] In fact,
he considered his quantum hypothesis a mathematical trick to get the
right answer rather than a sizable discovery.[85] However, in 1905
Albert Einstein interpreted Planck's quantum hypothesis realistically
and used it to explain the photoelectric effect, in which shining light on
certain materials can eject electrons from the material. Niels Bohr then developed Planck's ideas
History
4/10/26, 3:51 PM
Quantum mechanics - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_mechanics
16/28
