The ergosphere of a rotating black hole,
which plays a key role when it comes to
extracting energy from such a black hole
relevant length scale is the Schwarzschild radius, given by the equation 
[156]), no light
from inside can escape to the outside. Since no object can overtake a light pulse, all interior matter is
imprisoned as well. Passage from the exterior to the interior is still possible, showing that the
boundary, the black hole's horizon, is not a physical barrier.[157]
Early studies of black holes relied on explicit solutions of
Einstein's equations, notably the spherically symmetric
Schwarzschild solution (used to describe a static black hole)
and the axisymmetric Kerr solution (used to describe a
rotating, stationary black hole, and introducing interesting
features such as the ergosphere). Using global geometry, later
studies have revealed more general properties of black holes.
With time they become rather simple objects characterized by
eleven parameters specifying: electric charge, mass–energy,
linear momentum, angular momentum, and location at a
specified time. This is stated by the black hole uniqueness
theorem: "black holes have no hair", that is, no distinguishing
marks like the hairstyles of humans. Irrespective of the
complexity of a gravitating object collapsing to form a black hole, the object that results (having
emitted gravitational waves) is very simple.[158]
Even more remarkably, there is a general set of laws known as black hole mechanics, which is
analogous to the laws of thermodynamics. For instance, by the second law of black hole mechanics,
the area of the event horizon of a general black hole will never decrease with time, analogous to the
entropy of a thermodynamic system. This limits the energy that can be extracted by classical means
from a rotating black hole (e.g. by the Penrose process).[159] There is strong evidence that the laws of
black hole mechanics are, in fact, a subset of the laws of thermodynamics, and that the black hole area
is proportional to its entropy.[160] This leads to a modification of the original laws of black hole
mechanics: for instance, as the second law of black hole mechanics becomes part of the second law of
thermodynamics, it is possible for the black hole area to decrease as long as other processes ensure
that entropy increases overall. As thermodynamical objects with nonzero temperature, black holes
should emit thermal radiation. Semiclassical calculations indicate that indeed they do, with the
surface gravity playing the role of temperature in Planck's law. This radiation is known as Hawking
radiation (cf. the quantum theory section, below).[161]
There are many other types of horizons. In an expanding universe, an observer may find that some
regions of the past cannot be observed ("particle horizon"), and some regions of the future cannot be
influenced (event horizon).[162] Even in flat Minkowski space, when described by an accelerated
observer (Rindler space), there will be horizons associated with a semiclassical radiation known as
Unruh radiation.[163]
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
18/55
