In general relativity, the world line of a particle free from all external, non-gravitational force is a
particular type of geodesic in curved spacetime. In other words, a freely moving or falling particle
always moves along a geodesic.
The geodesic equation is:
where  is a scalar parameter of motion (e.g. the proper time), and 
 are Christoffel symbols
(sometimes called the affine connection coefficients or Levi-Civita connection coefficients) which is
symmetric in the two lower indices. Greek indices may take the values: 0, 1, 2, 3 and the summation
convention is used for repeated indices  and . The quantity on the left-hand-side of this equation is
the acceleration of a particle, and so this equation is analogous to Newton's laws of motion which
likewise provide formulae for the acceleration of a particle. This equation of motion employs the
Einstein notation, meaning that repeated indices are summed (i.e. from zero to three). The Christoffel
symbols are functions of the four spacetime coordinates, and so are independent of the velocity or
acceleration or other characteristics of a test particle whose motion is described by the geodesic
equation.
In general relativity, the effective gravitational potential energy of an object of mass m revolving
around a massive central body M is given by[43][44]
A conservative total force can then be obtained as its negative gradient
where L is the angular momentum. The first term represents the force of Newtonian gravity, which is
described by the inverse-square law. The second term represents the centrifugal force in the circular
motion. The third term represents the relativistic effect.
There are alternatives to general relativity built upon the same premises, which include additional
rules and/or constraints, leading to different field equations. Examples are Whitehead's theory,
Brans–Dicke theory, teleparallelism, f(R) gravity and Einstein–Cartan theory.[45]
Total force in general relativity
Alternatives to general relativity
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
7/55
