Even though the predictions of both quantum theory and general relativity have been supported by
rigorous and repeated empirical evidence, their abstract formalisms contradict each other and they
have proven extremely difficult to incorporate into one consistent, cohesive model. Gravity is
negligible in many areas of particle physics, so that unification between general relativity and
quantum mechanics is not an urgent issue in those particular applications. However, the lack of a
correct theory of quantum gravity is an important issue in physical cosmology and the search by
physicists for an elegant "Theory of Everything" (TOE). Consequently, resolving the inconsistencies
between both theories has been a major goal of 20th- and 21st-century physics. This TOE would
combine not only the models of subatomic physics but also derive the four fundamental forces of
nature from a single force or phenomenon.[48]
One proposal for doing so is string theory, which posits that the point-like particles of particle physics
are replaced by one-dimensional objects called strings. String theory describes how these strings
propagate through space and interact with each other. On distance scales larger than the string scale,
a string looks just like an ordinary particle, with its mass, charge, and other properties determined by
the vibrational state of the string. In string theory, one of the many vibrational states of the string
corresponds to the graviton, a quantum mechanical particle that carries gravitational force.[49][50]
Another popular theory is loop quantum gravity (LQG), which describes quantum properties of
gravity and is thus a theory of quantum spacetime. LQG is an attempt to merge and adapt standard
quantum mechanics and standard general relativity. This theory describes space as an extremely fine
fabric "woven" of finite loops called spin networks. The evolution of a spin network over time is called
a spin foam. The characteristic length scale of a spin foam is the Planck length, approximately
1.616×10−35 m, and so lengths shorter than the Planck length are not physically meaningful in
LQG.[51]
Since its inception, the many counter-intuitive aspects and results of quantum mechanics have
provoked strong philosophical debates and many interpretations. The arguments centre on the
probabilistic nature of quantum mechanics, the difficulties with wavefunction collapse and the related
measurement problem, and quantum nonlocality. Perhaps the only consensus that exists about these
issues is that there is no consensus. Richard Feynman once said, "I think I can safely say that nobody
understands quantum mechanics."[52] According to Steven Weinberg, "There is now in my opinion no
entirely satisfactory interpretation of quantum mechanics."[53]
The views of Niels Bohr, Werner Heisenberg and other physicists are often grouped together as the
"Copenhagen interpretation".[54][55] According to these views, the probabilistic nature of quantum
mechanics is not a temporary feature which will eventually be replaced by a deterministic theory, but
is instead a final renunciation of the classical idea of "causality". Bohr in particular emphasized that
any well-defined application of the quantum mechanical formalism must always make reference to the
experimental arrangement, due to the complementary nature of evidence obtained under different
Relation to general relativity
Philosophical implications
4/10/26, 3:51 PM
Quantum mechanics - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_mechanics
14/28
