3. From the focusing theorem, we know that all geodesics from  have conjugate points at finite
values of the affine parameter. In particular, this is true for the geodesic of maximal length. But this
is a contradiction – one can therefore conclude that the spacetime is geodesically incomplete.
In general relativity, there are several versions of the Penrose–Hawking singularity theorem.
Most versions state, roughly, that if there is a trapped null surface and the energy density is
nonnegative, then there exist geodesics of finite length that cannot be extended.[7]
These theorems, strictly speaking, prove that there is at least one non-spacelike geodesic that is only
finitely extendible into the past but there are cases in which the conditions of these theorems obtain in
such a way that all past-directed spacetime paths terminate at a singularity.
There are many versions; below is the null version:
Assume
1. The null energy condition holds.
2. We have a noncompact connected Cauchy surface.
3. We have a closed trapped null surface 
.
Then, we either have null geodesic incompleteness, or closed timelike curves.
Sketch of proof: Proof by contradiction. The boundary of the future of 
, 
 is
generated by null geodesic segments originating from 
 with tangent vectors orthogonal
to it. Being a trapped null surface, by the null Raychaudhuri equation, both families of null
rays emanating from 
 will encounter caustics. (A caustic by itself is unproblematic. For
instance, the boundary of the future of two spacelike separated points is the union of two
future light cones with the interior parts of the intersection removed. Caustics occur where
the light cones intersect, but no singularity lies there.) The null geodesics generating
 have to terminate, however, i.e. reach their future endpoints at or before the
caustics. Otherwise, we can take two null geodesic segments – changing at the caustic –
and then deform them slightly to get a timelike curve connecting a point on the boundary
to a point on 
, a contradiction. But as 
 is compact, given a continuous affine
parameterization of the geodesic generators, there exists a lower bound to the absolute
value of the expansion parameter. So, we know caustics will develop for every generator
before a uniform bound in the affine parameter has elapsed. As a result, 
 has to be
compact. Either we have closed timelike curves, or we can construct a congruence by
timelike curves, and every single one of them has to intersect the noncompact Cauchy
surface exactly once. Consider all such timelike curves passing through 
 and look at
their image on the Cauchy surface. Being a continuous map, the image also has to be
compact. Being a timelike congruence, the timelike curves can't intersect, and so, the map
is injective. If the Cauchy surface were noncompact, then the image has a boundary.
We're assuming spacetime comes in one connected piece. But 
 is compact and
boundariless because the boundary of a boundary is empty. A continuous injective map
can't create a boundary, giving us our contradiction.
Loopholes: If closed timelike curves exist, then timelike curves don't have to intersect the
partial Cauchy surface. If the Cauchy surface were compact, i.e. space is compact, the
null geodesic generators of the boundary can intersect everywhere because they can
intersect on the other side of space.
Versions
4/10/26, 3:48 PM
Penrose–Hawking singularity theorems - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penrose–Hawking_singularity_theorems
5/7
