never drawn apart, and this holds whenever the energy of matter is non-negative.
Hawking's singularity theorem is for the whole universe, and works backwards in time: it guarantees
that the (classical) Big Bang has infinite density.[2] This theorem is more restricted and only holds
when matter obeys a stronger energy condition, called the strong energy condition, in which the
energy is larger than the pressure. All ordinary matter, with the exception of a vacuum expectation
value of a scalar field, obeys this condition. During inflation, the universe violates the dominant
energy condition, and it was initially argued (e.g. by Starobinsky[3]) that inflationary cosmologies
could avoid the initial big-bang singularity. However, it has since been shown that inflationary
cosmologies are still past-incomplete,[4] and thus require physics other than inflation to describe the
past boundary of the inflating region of spacetime.
In general relativity, a singularity is a place that objects or light rays can reach in a finite time where
the curvature becomes infinite, or spacetime stops being a manifold. Singularities can be found in all
the black-hole spacetimes, the Schwarzschild metric, the Reissner–Nordström metric, the Kerr metric
and the Kerr–Newman metric, and in all cosmological solutions that do not have a scalar field energy
or a cosmological constant.
One cannot predict what might come "out" of a big-bang singularity in our past, or what happens to an
observer that falls "in" to a black-hole singularity in the future, so they require a modification of
physical law. Before Penrose, it was conceivable that singularities only form in contrived situations.
For example, in the collapse of a star to form a black hole, if the star is spinning and thus possesses
some angular momentum, maybe the centrifugal force partly counteracts gravity and keeps a
singularity from forming. The singularity theorems prove that this cannot happen, and that a
singularity will always form once an event horizon forms.
In the collapsing star example, since all matter and energy is a source of gravitational attraction in
general relativity, the additional angular momentum only pulls the star together more strongly as it
contracts: the part outside the event horizon eventually settles down to a Kerr black hole (see No-hair
theorem). The part inside the event horizon necessarily has a singularity somewhere. The proof is
somewhat constructive  – it shows that the singularity can be found by following light-rays from a
surface just inside the horizon. But the proof does not say what type of singularity occurs, spacelike,
timelike, null, orbifold, jump discontinuity in the metric. It only guarantees that if one follows the
time-like geodesics into the future, it is impossible for the boundary of the region they form to be
generated by the null geodesics from the surface. This means that the boundary must either come
from nowhere or the whole future ends at some finite extension.
An interesting "philosophical" feature of general relativity is revealed by the singularity theorems.
Because general relativity predicts the inevitable occurrence of singularities, the theory is not
complete without a specification for what happens to matter that hits the singularity. One can extend
general relativity to a unified field theory, such as the Einstein–Maxwell–Dirac system, where no such
singularities occur.
Interpretation and significance
4/10/26, 3:48 PM
Penrose–Hawking singularity theorems - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penrose–Hawking_singularity_theorems
2/7
