Opening of Einstein's speech (11 April
1943) for the United Jewish Appeal
(recording by Radio Universidad
Nacional de La Plata, Argentina)
"Ladies (coughs) and gentlemen, our
age is proud of the progress it has made
in man's intellectual development. The
search and striving for truth and
knowledge is one of the highest of man's
qualities ..."
an atheist",[195] preferring to call himself an agnostic,[196][197]
or a "deeply religious nonbeliever".[194] He wrote that "A spirit
is manifest in the laws of the universe—a spirit vastly superior
to that of man, and one in the face of which we with our
modest powers must feel humble. In this way the pursuit of
science leads to a religious feeling of a special sort."[198]
Einstein was primarily affiliated with non-religious humanist
and Ethical Culture groups in both the UK and US. He served
on the advisory board of the First Humanist Society of New
York,[199] and was an honorary associate of the Rationalist
Association, which publishes New Humanist in Britain. For
the 75th anniversary of the New York Society for Ethical
Culture, he stated that the idea of Ethical Culture embodied his personal conception of what is most
valuable and enduring in religious idealism. He observed, "Without 'ethical culture' there is no
salvation for humanity."[200]
In a German-language letter to philosopher Eric Gutkind, dated 3 January 1954, Einstein wrote:
The word God is for me nothing more than the expression and product of human
weaknesses, the Bible a collection of honorable, but still primitive legends which are
nevertheless pretty childish. No interpretation no matter how subtle can (for me) change
this. ... For me the Jewish religion like all other religions is an incarnation of the most
childish superstitions. And the Jewish people to whom I gladly belong and with whose
mentality I have a deep affinity have no different quality for me than all other people. ... I
cannot see anything 'chosen' about them.[201]
Einstein had been sympathetic toward vegetarianism for a long time. In a letter in 1930 to Hermann
Huth, vice-president of the German Vegetarian Federation (Deutsche Vegetarier-Bund), he wrote:
Although I have been prevented by outward circumstances from observing a strictly
vegetarian diet, I have long been an adherent to the cause in principle. Besides agreeing with
the aims of vegetarianism for aesthetic and moral reasons, it is my view that a vegetarian
manner of living by its purely physical effect on the human temperament would most
beneficially influence the lot of mankind.[202]
He became a vegetarian himself only during the last part of his life. In March 1954 he wrote in a letter:
"So I am living without fats, without meat, without fish, but am feeling quite well this way. It almost
seems to me that man was not born to be a carnivore."[203]
Einstein developed an appreciation for music at an early age. In his late journals he wrote:
1:31
Love of music
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein
18/61
