The derivation outlined in the previous section contains all the information needed to define general
relativity, describe its key properties, and address a question of crucial importance in physics, namely
how the theory can be used for model-building.
General relativity is a metric theory of gravitation. At its core are Einstein's equations, which describe
the relation between the geometry of a four-dimensional pseudo-Riemannian manifold representing
spacetime, and the distribution of energy, momentum and stress contained in that spacetime.[46]
Phenomena that in classical mechanics are ascribed to the action of the force of gravity (such as free-
fall, orbital motion, and spacecraft trajectories), correspond to inertial motion within a curved
geometry of spacetime in general relativity; there is no gravitational force deflecting objects from their
natural, straight paths. Instead, gravity corresponds to changes in the properties of space and time,
which in turn changes the straightest-possible paths that objects will naturally follow.[47] The
curvature is, in turn, caused by the stress–energy of matter. Paraphrasing the relativist John
Archibald Wheeler, spacetime tells matter how to move; matter tells spacetime how to curve.[48]
While general relativity replaces the scalar gravitational potential of classical physics by a symmetric
rank-two tensor, the latter reduces to the former in certain limiting cases. For weak gravitational fields
and low speed relative to the speed of light, the theory's predictions converge on those of Newton's law
of universal gravitation.[49]
As it is constructed using tensors, general relativity exhibits general covariance: its laws—and further
laws formulated within the general relativistic framework—take on the same form in all coordinate
systems.[50] Furthermore, the theory does not contain any invariant geometric background structures,
i.e. it is background-independent. It thus satisfies a more stringent general principle of relativity,
namely that the laws of physics are the same for all observers.[51] Locally, as expressed in the
equivalence principle, spacetime is Minkowskian, and the laws of physics exhibit local Lorentz
invariance.[52]
The core concept of general-relativistic model-building is that of a solution of Einstein's equations.
Given both Einstein's equations and suitable equations for the properties of matter, such a solution
consists of a specific semi-Riemannian manifold (usually defined by giving the metric in specific
coordinates), and specific matter fields defined on that manifold. Matter and geometry must satisfy
Einstein's equations, so in particular, the matter's stress–energy tensor must be divergence-free. The
matter must, of course, also satisfy whatever additional equations were imposed on its properties. In
short, such a solution is a model universe that satisfies the laws of general relativity, and possibly
additional laws governing whatever matter might be present.[53]
Definition and basic applications
Definition and basic properties
Model-building and basic applications
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
8/55
