Einstein at his office, University
of Berlin, 1920
In order to incorporate spinning point particles into general relativity,
the affine connection needed to be generalized to include an
antisymmetric part, called the torsion. This modification was made by
Einstein and Cartan in the 1920s.
In general relativity, gravitational force is reimagined as curvature of
spacetime. A curved path like an orbit is not the result of a force
deflecting a body from an ideal straight-line path, but rather the body's
attempt to fall freely through a background that is itself curved by the
presence of other masses. A remark by John Archibald Wheeler that
has become proverbial among physicists summarizes the theory:
"Spacetime tells matter how to move; matter tells spacetime how to
curve."[279][280] The Einstein field equations cover the latter aspect of
the theory, relating the curvature of spacetime to the distribution of
matter and energy. The geodesic equation covers the former aspect,
stating that freely falling bodies follow lines that are as straight as possible in a curved spacetime.
Einstein regarded this as an "independent fundamental assumption" that had to be postulated in
addition to the field equations in order to complete the theory. Believing this to be a shortcoming in
how general relativity was originally presented, he wished to derive it from the field equations
themselves. Since the equations of general relativity are non-linear, a lump of energy made out of pure
gravitational fields, like a black hole, would move on a trajectory which is determined by the Einstein
field equations themselves, not by a new law. Accordingly, Einstein proposed that the field equations
would determine the path of a singular solution, like a black hole, to be a geodesic. Both physicists and
philosophers have often repeated the assertion that the geodesic equation can be obtained from
applying the field equations to the motion of a gravitational singularity, but this claim remains
disputed.[281][282]
In a 1905 paper,[229] Einstein postulated that light itself consists of localized particles (quanta).
Einstein's light quanta were nearly universally rejected by all physicists, including Max Planck and
Niels Bohr. This idea only became universally accepted in 1919, with Robert Millikan's detailed
experiments on the photoelectric effect, and with the measurement of Compton scattering.
Einstein concluded that each wave of frequency f is associated with a collection of photons with energy
hf each, where h is the Planck constant. He did not say much more, because he was not sure how the
particles were related to the wave. But he did suggest that this idea would explain certain
experimental results, notably the photoelectric effect.[229] Light quanta were dubbed photons by
Gilbert N. Lewis in 1926.[283]
Einstein–Cartan theory
Equations of motion
Old quantum theory
Photons and energy quanta
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein
25/61
