Hawking radiation
Hawking radiation is black-body radiation released outside a black hole's event horizon due to
quantum effects according to a model developed by Stephen Hawking in 1974.[1] The radiation was
not predicted by previous models which assumed that once electromagnetic radiation is inside the
event horizon, it cannot escape. Hawking radiation is predicted to be extremely faint and is many
orders of magnitude below the current best telescopes' detecting ability.
Hawking radiation would reduce the mass and rotational energy of black holes and consequently
cause black hole evaporation. Because of this, black holes that do not gain mass through other means
are expected to shrink and ultimately vanish. For all except the smallest black holes, this happens
extremely slowly. The radiation temperature, called Hawking temperature, is inversely
proportional to the black hole's mass, so micro black holes are predicted to be larger emitters of
radiation than larger black holes and should dissipate faster per their mass. Consequently, if small
black holes exist, as permitted by the hypothesis of primordial black holes, they will lose mass more
rapidly as they shrink, leading to a final cataclysm of high energy radiation alone.[2] Such radiation
bursts have not yet been detected.
Modern black holes were first predicted by Einstein's 1915 theory of general relativity. Evidence of the
astrophysical objects termed black holes began to mount half a century later,[3] and these objects are
of current interest primarily because of their compact size and immense gravitational attraction. Early
research into black holes was done by individuals such as Karl Schwarzschild and John Wheeler, who
modelled black holes as having zero entropy.[3][4]
A black hole can form when enough matter or energy is compressed into a volume small enough that
the escape velocity is greater than the speed of light. Because nothing can travel that fast, nothing
within a certain distance, proportional to the mass of the black hole, can escape beyond that distance.
The region beyond which not even light can escape is the event horizon: an observer outside it cannot
observe, become aware of, or be affected by events within the event horizon.[5]: 25–36 
Alternatively, using a set of infalling coordinates in general relativity, one can conceptualize the event
horizon as the region beyond which space is infalling faster than the speed of light. (Although nothing
can travel through space faster than light, space itself can infall at any speed.)[6] Once matter is inside
the event horizon, all of the matter inside falls inevitably into a gravitational singularity, a place of
infinite curvature and zero size, leaving behind a warped spacetime devoid of any matter;[7] a classical
black hole is pure empty spacetime, and the simplest (nonrotating and uncharged) is characterized
just by its mass and event horizon.[5]: 37–43 
Background
4/10/26, 3:47 PM
Hawking radiation - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawking_radiation
1/17
