Fig. 1: Probability densities corresponding to the
wave functions of an electron in a hydrogen atom
possessing definite energy levels (increasing from
the top of the image to the bottom: n = 1, 2, 3, ...)
and angular momenta (increasing across from left
to right: s, p, d, ...). Denser areas correspond to
higher probability density in a position
measurement.
Such wave functions are directly comparable to
Chladni's figures of acoustic modes of vibration in
classical physics and are modes of oscillation as
well, possessing a sharp energy and thus, a
definite frequency. The angular momentum and
energy are quantized and take only discrete values
like those shown – as is the case for resonant
frequencies in acoustics.
The operator 
 is known as the time-evolution operator, and has the crucial property
that it is unitary. This time evolution is deterministic in the sense that – given an initial quantum state
 – it makes a definite prediction of what the quantum state 
 will be at any later time.[22]
Some 
wave 
functions 
produce 
probability
distributions that are independent of time, such as
eigenstates of the Hamiltonian.[7]: 133–137  Many
systems that are treated dynamically in classical
mechanics are described by such "static" wave
functions. For example, a single electron in an
unexcited atom is pictured classically as a particle
moving in a circular trajectory around the atomic
nucleus, whereas in quantum mechanics, it is
described by a static wave function surrounding the
nucleus. For example, the electron wave function for
an unexcited hydrogen atom is a spherically
symmetric function known as an s orbital (Fig. 1).
Analytic solutions of the Schrödinger equation are
known 
for 
very 
few 
relatively 
simple 
model
Hamiltonians including the quantum harmonic
oscillator, the particle in a box, the dihydrogen cation,
and the hydrogen atom. Even the helium atom  –
which contains just two electrons  – has defied all
attempts at a fully analytic treatment, admitting no
solution in closed form.[23][24][25]
However, 
there 
are 
techniques 
for 
finding
approximate 
solutions. 
One 
method, 
called
perturbation theory, uses the analytic result for a
simple quantum mechanical model to create a result
for a related but more complicated model by (for
example) 
the 
addition 
of 
a 
weak 
potential
energy.[7]: 793  Another approximation method applies
to systems for which quantum mechanics produces
only small deviations from classical behavior. These
deviations can then be computed based on the classical motion.[7]: 849 
One consequence of the basic quantum formalism is the uncertainty principle. In its most familiar
form, this states that no preparation of a quantum particle can imply simultaneously precise
predictions both for a measurement of its position and for a measurement of its momentum.[26][27]
Both position and momentum are observables, meaning that they are represented by Hermitian
operators. The position operator 
 and momentum operator 
 do not commute, but rather satisfy
the canonical commutation relation:
Uncertainty principle
4/10/26, 3:51 PM
Quantum mechanics - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_mechanics
5/28
