The singularity theorems use the notion of geodesic incompleteness as a stand-in for the presence of
infinite curvatures. Geodesic incompleteness is the notion that there are geodesics, paths of observers
through spacetime, that can only be extended for a finite time as measured by an observer traveling
along one. Presumably, at the end of the geodesic the observer has fallen into a singularity or
encountered some other pathology at which the laws of general relativity break down.
Typically a singularity theorem has three ingredients:[6]
1. An energy condition on the matter,
2. A condition on the global structure of spacetime,
3. Gravity is strong enough (somewhere) to trap a region.
There are various possibilities for each ingredient, and each leads to different singularity theorems.
A key tool used in the formulation and proof of the singularity theorems is the Raychaudhuri
equation, which describes the divergence  of a congruence (family) of geodesics. The divergence of a
congruence is defined as the derivative of the log of the determinant of the congruence volume. The
Raychaudhuri equation is
where 
 is the shear tensor of the congruence and 
 is also known as the
Raychaudhuri scalar (see the congruence page for details). The key point is that 
 will be non-
negative provided that the Einstein field equations hold and[6]
the null energy condition holds and the geodesic congruence is null, or
the strong energy condition holds and the geodesic congruence is timelike.
When these hold, the divergence becomes infinite at some finite value of the affine parameter. Thus all
geodesics leaving a point will eventually reconverge after a finite time, provided the appropriate
energy condition holds, a result also known as the focusing theorem.
This is relevant for singularities thanks to the following argument:
1. Suppose we have a spacetime that is globally hyperbolic, and two points  and  that can be
connected by a timelike or null curve. Then there exists a geodesic of maximal length connecting
 and . Call this geodesic .
2. The geodesic  can be varied to a longer curve if another geodesic from  intersects  at another
point, called a conjugate point.
Nature of a singularity
Assumptions of the theorems
Tools employed
4/10/26, 3:48 PM
Penrose–Hawking singularity theorems - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penrose–Hawking_singularity_theorems
4/7
