Slow motion computer simulation of the
black hole binary system GW150914 as
seen by a nearby observer, during 0.33 s
of its final inspiral, merge, and ringdown.
The star field behind the black holes is
being heavily distorted and appears to
rotate and move, due to extreme
gravitational lensing, as spacetime itself
is distorted and dragged around by the
rotating black holes.[1]
General relativity
General relativity, also known as the general theory of
relativity, and as Einstein's theory of gravity, is the
geometric theory of gravitation published by Albert Einstein in
May 1916 and is the accepted description of the gravitation of
macroscopic objects in modern physics. General relativity
generalizes special relativity and refines Isaac Newton's law of
universal gravitation, providing a unified description of gravity
as a geometric property of space and time, or four-dimensional
spacetime. In particular, the curvature of spacetime is directly
related to the energy, momentum, and stress of whatever is
present, including matter and radiation. The relation is
specified by the Einstein field equations, a system of second-
order partial differential equations. John Archibald Wheeler
summarized it: "Space-time tells matter how to move; matter
tells space-time how to curve."
Newton's law of universal gravitation, which describes gravity
in classical mechanics, can be seen as a prediction of general
relativity for the almost flat spacetime geometry around stationary mass distributions. Some
predictions of general relativity, however, are beyond Newton's law of universal gravitation in classical
physics. These predictions concern the passage of time, the geometry of space, the motion of bodies in
free fall, and the propagation of light, and include gravitational time dilation, gravitational lensing, the
gravitational redshift of light, the Shapiro time delay, singularities and black holes. So far, all tests of
general relativity have been in agreement with the theory. The time-dependent solutions of general
relativity enable us to extrapolate the history of the universe into the past and future, and have
provided the modern framework for cosmology, thus leading to the discovery of the Big Bang and
cosmic microwave background radiation. Despite the introduction of a number of alternative theories,
general relativity continues to be the simplest theory consistent with experimental data.
Reconciliation of general relativity with the laws of quantum physics remains a problem, however, as
no self-consistent theory of quantum gravity has been found. It is not yet known how gravity can be
unified with the three non-gravitational interactions: strong, weak and electromagnetic.
Einstein's theory has astrophysical implications, including the prediction of black holes—regions of
space in which space and time are distorted in such a way that nothing, not even light, can escape
from them. Black holes are the end-state for massive stars. Microquasars and active galactic nuclei are
believed to be stellar black holes and supermassive black holes. It also predicts gravitational lensing,
where the bending of light results in distorted and multiple images of the same distant astronomical
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
1/55
