In the mathematically rigorous formulation of quantum mechanics, the state of a quantum
mechanical system is a vector 
 belonging to a (separable) complex Hilbert space 
. This vector is
postulated to be normalized under the Hilbert space inner product, that is, it obeys 
, and it
is well-defined up to a complex number of modulus 1 (the global phase), that is,  and 
 represent
the same physical system. In other words, the possible states are points in the projective space of a
Hilbert space, usually called the complex projective space. The exact nature of this Hilbert space is
dependent on the system – for example, for describing position and momentum the Hilbert space is
the space of complex square-integrable functions 
,[20]: 13  while the Hilbert space for the spin of
a single proton is simply the space of two-dimensional complex vectors 
 with the usual inner
product.[20]: 20 
Physical quantities of interest – position, momentum, energy, spin – are represented by observables,
which are Hermitian (more precisely, self-adjoint) linear operators acting on the Hilbert space.[20]: 17 
A quantum state can be an eigenvector of an observable, in which case it is called an eigenstate, and
the associated eigenvalue corresponds to the value of the observable in that eigenstate. More
generally, a quantum state will be a linear combination of the eigenstates, known as a quantum
superposition. When an observable is measured, the result will be one of its eigenvalues with
probability given by the Born rule: in the simplest case the eigenvalue  is non-degenerate and the
probability is given by 
, where  is its associated unit-length eigenvector. More generally, the
eigenvalue is degenerate and the probability is given by 
, where 
 is the projector onto its
associated eigenspace.[21] In the continuous case, these formulas give instead the probability density.
After the measurement, if result  was obtained, the quantum state is postulated to collapse to , in
the non-degenerate case, or to 
, in the general case. The probabilistic nature of
quantum mechanics thus stems from the act of measurement. This is one of the most debated aspects
of quantum theory, with different interpretations of quantum mechanics giving radically different
answers to questions regarding quantum-state collapse, as discussed below.
The time evolution of a quantum state is described by the Schrödinger equation:
Here 
 denotes the Hamiltonian, the observable corresponding to the total energy of the system, and
 is the reduced Planck constant. The constant 
 is introduced so that the Hamiltonian is reduced to
the classical Hamiltonian in cases where the quantum system can be approximated by a classical
system; the ability to make such an approximation in certain limits is called the correspondence
principle.
The solution of this differential equation is given by
Mathematical formulation
Time evolution of a quantum state
4/10/26, 3:51 PM
Quantum mechanics - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_mechanics
4/28
