Light cone of event A
classical mechanics. (The defining symmetry of special relativity is the
Poincaré group, which includes translations, rotations, boosts and
reflections.) The differences between the two become significant when
dealing with speeds approaching the speed of light, and with high-
energy phenomena.[33]
With Lorentz symmetry, additional structures come into play. They are
defined by the set of light cones (see image). The light-cones define a
causal structure: for each event A, there is a set of events that can, in
principle, either influence or be influenced by A via signals or
interactions that do not need to travel faster than light (such as event
B in the image), and a set of events for which such an influence is
impossible (such as event C in the image). These sets are observer-
independent.[34] In conjunction with the world-lines of freely falling
particles, the light-cones can be used to reconstruct the spacetime's
semi-Riemannian metric, at least up to a positive scalar factor. In
mathematical terms, this defines a conformal structure[35] or
conformal geometry.
Special relativity is defined in the absence of gravity. For practical applications, it is a suitable model
whenever gravity can be neglected. Bringing gravity into play, and assuming the universality of free
fall motion, an analogous reasoning as in the previous section applies: there are no global inertial
frames. Instead there are approximate inertial frames moving alongside freely falling particles.
Translated into the language of spacetime: the straight time-like lines that define a gravity-free
inertial frame are deformed to lines that are curved relative to each other, suggesting that the
inclusion of gravity necessitates a change in spacetime geometry.[36]
A priori, it is not clear whether the new local frames in free fall coincide with the reference frames in
which the laws of special relativity hold—that theory is based on the propagation of light, and thus on
electromagnetism, which could have a different set of preferred frames. But using different
assumptions about the special-relativistic frames (such as their being earth-fixed, or in free fall), one
can derive different predictions for the gravitational redshift, that is, the way in which the frequency of
light shifts as the light propagates through a gravitational field (cf. below). The actual measurements
show that free-falling frames are the ones in which light propagates as it does in special relativity.[37]
The generalization of this statement, namely that the laws of special relativity hold to good
approximation in freely falling (and non-rotating) reference frames, is known as the Einstein
equivalence principle, a crucial guiding principle for generalizing special-relativistic physics to include
gravity.[38]
The same experimental data shows that time as measured by clocks in a gravitational field—proper
time, to give the technical term—does not follow the rules of special relativity. In the language of
spacetime geometry, it is not measured by the Minkowski metric. As in the Newtonian case, this is
suggestive of a more general geometry. At small scales, all reference frames that are in free fall are
equivalent, and approximately Minkowskian. Consequently, we are dealing with a curved
generalization of Minkowski space. The metric tensor that defines the geometry—in particular, how
lengths and angles are measured—is not the Minkowski metric of special relativity, it is a
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
5/55
