The photoelectric effect. Incoming
photons on the left strike a metal plate
(bottom), and eject electrons, depicted as
flying off to the right.
Einstein in 1921, by Harris &
Ewing studio
In 1907, Einstein proposed a model of matter where each
atom in a lattice structure is an independent harmonic
oscillator. In the Einstein model, each atom oscillates
independently—a series of equally spaced quantized states for
each oscillator. Einstein was aware that getting the frequency
of the actual oscillations would be difficult, but he
nevertheless proposed this theory because it was a particularly
clear demonstration that quantum mechanics could solve the
specific heat problem in classical mechanics. Peter Debye
refined this model.[284]
In 1924, Einstein received a description of a statistical model
from Indian physicist Satyendra Nath Bose, based on a
counting method that assumed that light could be understood
as a gas of indistinguishable particles. Einstein noted that
Bose's statistics applied to some atoms as well as to the proposed light particles, and submitted his
translation of Bose's paper to the Zeitschrift für Physik. Einstein also published his own articles
describing the model and its implications, among them the Bose–Einstein condensate phenomenon
that some particulates should appear at very low temperatures.[285] It was not until 1995 that the first
such condensate was produced experimentally by Eric Allin Cornell and Carl Wieman using ultra-
cooling equipment built at the NIST–JILA laboratory at the University of Colorado at Boulder.[286]
Bose–Einstein statistics are now used to describe the behaviors of any assembly of bosons. Einstein's
sketches for this project may be seen in the Einstein Archive in the library of the Leiden
University.[225]
Although the patent office promoted Einstein to Technical Examiner
Second Class in 1906, he had not given up on academia. In 1908, he
became a Privatdozent at the University of Bern.[287] In "Über die
Entwicklung unserer Anschauungen über das Wesen und die
Konstitution der Strahlung" ("The Development of our Views on the
Composition and Essence of Radiation"), on the quantization of light,
and in an earlier 1909 paper, Einstein showed that Max Planck's
energy quanta must have well-defined momenta and act in some
respects as independent, point-like particles. This paper introduced
the photon concept and inspired the notion of wave–particle duality in
quantum mechanics. Einstein saw this wave–particle duality in
radiation as concrete evidence for his conviction that physics needed a
new, unified foundation.
Quantized atomic vibrations
Bose–Einstein statistics
Wave–particle duality
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein
26/61
