In history, there is a deep connection between the curvature of a manifold and its topology. The
Bonnet–Myers theorem states that a complete Riemannian manifold that has Ricci curvature
everywhere greater than a certain positive constant must be compact. The condition of positive Ricci
curvature is most conveniently stated in the following way: for every geodesic there is a nearby
initially parallel geodesic that will bend toward it when extended, and the two will intersect at some
finite length.
When two nearby parallel geodesics intersect (see conjugate point), the extension of either one is no
longer the shortest path between the endpoints. The reason is that two parallel geodesic paths
necessarily collide after an extension of equal length, and if one path is followed to the intersection
then the other, you are connecting the endpoints by a non-geodesic path of equal length. This means
that for a geodesic to be a shortest length path, it must never intersect neighboring parallel geodesics.
Starting with a small sphere and sending out parallel geodesics from the boundary, assuming that the
manifold has a Ricci curvature bounded below by a positive constant, none of the geodesics are
shortest paths after a while, since they all collide with a neighbor. This means that after a certain
amount of extension, all potentially new points have been reached. If all points in a connected
manifold are at a finite geodesic distance from a small sphere, the manifold must be compact.
Roger Penrose argued analogously in relativity. If null geodesics, the paths of light rays, are followed
into the future, points in the future of the region are generated. If a point is on the boundary of the
future of the region, it can only be reached by going at the speed of light, no slower, so null geodesics
include the entire boundary of the proper future of a region. When the null geodesics intersect, they
are no longer on the boundary of the future, they are in the interior of the future. So, if all the null
geodesics collide, there is no boundary to the future.
In relativity, the Ricci curvature, which determines the collision properties of geodesics, is determined
by the energy tensor, and its projection on light rays is equal to the null-projection of the energy–
momentum tensor and is always non-negative. This implies that the volume of a congruence of
parallel null geodesics once it starts decreasing, will reach zero in a finite time. Once the volume is
zero, there is a collapse in some direction, so every geodesic intersects some neighbor.
Penrose concluded that whenever there is a sphere where all the outgoing (and ingoing) light rays are
initially converging, the boundary of the future of that region will end after a finite extension, because
all the null geodesics will converge.[5] This is significant, because the outgoing light rays for any
sphere inside the horizon of a black hole solution are all converging, so the boundary of the future of
this region is either compact or comes from nowhere. The future of the interior either ends after a
finite extension, or has a boundary that is eventually generated by new light rays that cannot be traced
back to the original sphere.
Elements of the theorems
4/10/26, 3:48 PM
Penrose–Hawking singularity theorems - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penrose–Hawking_singularity_theorems
3/7
