An illustration of the double-slit experiment
Quantum mechanics allows the calculation of properties and behaviour of physical systems. It is
typically applied to microscopic systems: molecules, atoms and subatomic particles. It has been
demonstrated to hold for complex molecules with thousands of atoms,[4] but its application to human
beings raises philosophical problems, such as Wigner's friend, and its application to the universe as a
whole remains speculative.[5] Predictions of quantum mechanics have been verified experimentally to
an extremely high degree of accuracy. For example, the refinement of quantum mechanics for the
interaction of light and matter, known as quantum electrodynamics (QED), has been shown to agree
with experiment to within 1 part in 1012 when predicting the magnetic properties of an electron.[6]
A fundamental feature of the theory is that it usually cannot predict with certainty what will happen,
but only gives probabilities. Mathematically, a probability is found by taking the square of the absolute
value of a complex number, known as a probability amplitude. This is known as the Born rule, named
after physicist Max Born. For example, a quantum particle like an electron can be described by a wave
function, which associates to each point in space a probability amplitude. Applying the Born rule to
these amplitudes gives a probability density function for the position that the electron will be found to
have when an experiment is performed to measure it. This is the best the theory can do; it cannot say
for certain where the electron will be found. The Schrödinger equation relates the collection of
probability amplitudes that pertain to one moment of time to the collection of probability amplitudes
that pertain to another.[7]: 67–87 
One consequence of the mathematical rules of quantum mechanics is a tradeoff in predictability
between measurable quantities. The most famous form of this uncertainty principle says that no
matter how a quantum particle is prepared or how carefully experiments upon it are arranged, it is
impossible to have a precise prediction for a measurement of its position and also at the same time for
a measurement of its momentum.[7]: 427–435 
Another consequence of the mathematical rules of
quantum mechanics is the phenomenon of quantum
interference, which is often illustrated with the double-
slit experiment. In the basic version of this experiment,
a coherent light source, such as a laser beam,
illuminates a plate pierced by two parallel slits, and the
light passing through the slits is observed on a screen
behind the plate.[8]: 102–111 [2]: 1.1–1.8  The wave nature of
light causes the light waves passing through the two
slits to interfere, producing bright and dark bands on
the screen – a result that would not be expected if light consisted of classical particles.[8] However, the
light is always found to be absorbed at the screen at discrete points, as individual particles rather than
waves; the interference pattern appears via the varying density of these particle hits on the screen.
Furthermore, versions of the experiment that include detectors at the slits find that each detected
photon passes through one slit (as would a classical particle), and not through both slits (as would a
wave).[8]: 109 [9][10] However, such experiments demonstrate that particles do not form the
Overview and fundamental concepts
4/10/26, 3:51 PM
Quantum mechanics - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_mechanics
2/28
