Not all states in the joint Hilbert space 
 can be written in this form, however, because the
superposition principle implies that linear combinations of these "separable" or "product states" are
also valid. For example, if 
 and 
 are both possible states for system 
, and likewise 
 and 
are both possible states for system 
, then
is a valid joint state that is not separable. States that are not separable are called entangled.[29][30]
If the state for a composite system is entangled, it is impossible to describe either component system
A or system B by a state vector. One can instead define reduced density matrices that describe the
statistics that can be obtained by making measurements on either component system alone. This
necessarily causes a loss of information, though: knowing the reduced density matrices of the
individual systems is not enough to reconstruct the state of the composite system.[29][30] Just as
density matrices specify the state of a subsystem of a larger system, analogously, positive operator-
valued measures (POVMs) describe the effect on a subsystem of a measurement performed on a larger
system. POVMs are extensively used in quantum information theory.[29][31]
As described above, entanglement is a key feature of models of measurement processes in which an
apparatus becomes entangled with the system being measured. Systems interacting with the
environment in which they reside generally become entangled with that environment, a phenomenon
known as quantum decoherence. This can explain why, in practice, quantum effects are difficult to
observe in systems larger than microscopic.[32]
There are many mathematically equivalent formulations of quantum mechanics. One of the oldest and
most common is the "transformation theory" proposed by Paul Dirac, which unifies and generalizes
the two earliest formulations of quantum mechanics  – matrix mechanics (invented by Werner
Heisenberg) and wave mechanics (invented by Erwin Schrödinger).[33] An alternative formulation of
quantum mechanics is Feynman's path integral formulation, in which a quantum-mechanical
amplitude is considered as a sum over all possible classical and non-classical paths between the initial
and final states. This is the quantum-mechanical counterpart of the action principle in classical
mechanics.[34]
The Hamiltonian 
 is known as the generator of time evolution, since it defines a unitary time-
evolution operator 
 for each value of . From this relation between 
 and 
, it
follows that any observable 
 that commutes with 
 will be conserved: its expectation value will not
change over time.[7]: 471  This statement generalizes, as mathematically, any Hermitian operator 
 can
generate a family of unitary operators parameterized by a variable . Under the evolution generated by
, any observable 
 that commutes with 
 will be conserved. Moreover, if 
 is conserved by
Equivalence between formulations
Symmetries and conservation laws
4/10/26, 3:51 PM
Quantum mechanics - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_mechanics
7/28
