According to general relativity, objects in
a gravitational field behave similarly to
objects within an accelerating enclosure.
For example, an observer will see a ball
fall the same way in a rocket (left) as it
does on Earth (right), provided that the
acceleration of the rocket is equal to
9.8 m/s2 (the acceleration due to gravity
on the surface of the Earth).
standard reference frames of classical mechanics, objects in
free motion move along straight lines at constant speed. In
modern parlance, their paths are geodesics, straight world
lines in curved spacetime.[27]
Conversely, one might expect that inertial motions, once
identified by observing the actual motions of bodies and
making allowances for the external forces (such as
electromagnetism or friction), can be used to define the
geometry of space, as well as a time coordinate. However,
there is an ambiguity once gravity comes into play. According
to Newton's law of gravity, and independently verified by
experiments such as that of Eötvös and its successors (see
Eötvös experiment), there is a universality of free fall (also
known as the weak equivalence principle, or the universal
equality of inertial and passive-gravitational mass): the
trajectory of a test body in free fall depends only on its
position and initial speed, but not on any of its material
properties.[28] A simplified version of this is embodied in
Einstein's elevator experiment, illustrated in the figure on the right: for an observer in an
enclosed room, it is impossible to decide, by mapping the trajectory of bodies such as a dropped ball,
whether the room is stationary in a gravitational field and the ball accelerating, or in free space aboard
a rocket that is accelerating at a rate equal to that of the gravitational field versus the ball which upon
release has nil acceleration.[29]
Given the universality of free fall, there is no observable distinction between inertial motion and
motion under the influence of the gravitational force. This suggests the definition of a new class of
inertial motion, namely that of objects in free fall under the influence of gravity. This new class of
preferred motions, too, defines a geometry of space and time—in mathematical terms, it is the
geodesic motion associated with a specific connection which depends on the gradient of the
gravitational potential. Space, in this construction, still has the ordinary Euclidean geometry.
However, spacetime as a whole is more complicated. As can be shown using simple thought
experiments following the free-fall trajectories of different test particles, the result of transporting
spacetime vectors that can denote a particle's velocity (time-like vectors) will vary with the particle's
trajectory; mathematically speaking, the Newtonian connection is not integrable. From this, one can
deduce that spacetime is curved. The resulting Newton–Cartan theory is a geometric formulation of
Newtonian gravity using only covariant concepts, i.e. a description which is valid in any desired
coordinate system.[30] In this geometric description, tidal effects—the relative acceleration of bodies
in free fall—are related to the derivative of the connection, showing how the modified geometry is
caused by the presence of mass.[31]
As intriguing as geometric Newtonian gravity may be, its basis, classical mechanics, is merely a
limiting case of (special) relativistic mechanics.[32] In the language of symmetry: where gravity can be
neglected, physics is Lorentz invariant as in special relativity rather than Galilei invariant as in
Relativistic generalization
4/10/26, 3:50 PM
General relativity - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity
4/55
